SANCAND LICENCE (Source Available Non Commercial And Non Derivative Licence)

    THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. THE AUTHOR(S) OF THIS
    LICENCE MAKE NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE
    INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR
    DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR
    WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and
subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original software
application or library as well as the data and numerical material that are
distributed with the software.

This licence was initiated to protect the right (and copyright) and allow a
just remuneration of software's authors. In particular authors that work on
their spare time or are granted time to work on source available software by
their company.

This licence also enforces some rules about the evolution of the list of authors
for tow purposes:
- securing the future of the software by enforcing decision rules.
- securing company's or commercial organisation that would buy the right to
  use the software under this licence.

This licence is only applicable to software that makes all there source and
data available (a.k.a. source available software). This is because these
software can be examined for malware by anyone.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation
of additional consideration or compensation, the authors associating SANCAND
with a software, to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright and
Related Rights in the software, voluntarily elects to apply SANCAND to the
software and publicly distribute the software under its terms, with knowledge
of his or her Copyright and Related Rights in the SANCAND and the meaning and
intended legal effect of SANCAND on those rights.

0. Definitions

  i. Software: this include all material: source code, images, video, sound,
     ...  distributed together and constituting the work protected by this
     SANCAND LICENCE. We assume (but do not enforce) that the software is
     managed using some dedicated software such as git, darcs, ...

  ii. Commit: a contribution to the software that do modify the material covered
     by SANCAND.

  iii. Contributor: an individual that contributed a commit and modified the
     software, even it the contribution has been completely replaced by more
     recent commit. Contributor must be individual (not company) that are the
     original author of the commit. Contributors are the copyright holder and
     are entitled the right to enforce the application of this licence.

  iv. Author: a potential benificiary of a commercial contract. They must
     contributors. But not all contributors need to be author. An author may become
     at any time a simple contributor following the rule of chapter 2 below.

  v. Supervisor: some of the authors that are entitled to take decision about
     the software using the rules defined below. Contributors and authors
     which are not supervisors grant to the supervisors all power of decisions
     about the evolution of the software, its licencing and selling permission
     to use to profitable organisation. As such Contributors and Authors that
     are not supervisor can not be held responsible for any action or decision
     regarding the software protected by SANCAND.

  vi. Commercial organisation: any entity, company or individual that sells
     some product or services directly of indirectly or that makes profit.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A software made available under SANCAND is
protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
Related Rights"). The following right are granted for software under SANCAND
to anyone:

  i. the right to download, compile and test the software.

 ii. the right to use the software for a non commercial organisation or for
     private use.

iii. the right to test the software for a commercial organisation. Testing
     means that the use of the software is not involved in the activity of the
     company.  This implies (but is not limited to) that testing the
     software do not increase the sells, the visibility or the profit
     of the company.

 iv. commercial company are allowed (and encouraged) to contact the
     supervisor(s) to buy the right to use the software. If no supervisor
     answers in 6 weeks, one may consider that all supervisors have been
     lost and the software become open source following rule 2. vii.

  v. Contributors (or potential contributor) are granted the right to use the
     software and modify it privately. They are only allowed to submit commit
     to the supervisor or exchange modification between contributors. All
     modifications made public by another way is forbidden by this
     SANCAND. Commit that were not accepted by the supervisor(s) may or may not
     be left available for the public, this is the responsability of the
     supervisor to take the decision to erase a rejected commit.

 vi. These are the only right granted by this licence. Distributing modified
     version of the software it not permitted in any cases.

2. Managment of the software.

  i. All authors are attributed a "share" of the software. This share is a
     rational number between 0 and 1. The sum of all shares must sum to one.
     The list of authors must be written at the end of the file. Shares are
     written using only the following characters : "0123456789/.%", with their
     usual meaning in mathematics ("%" means divided by one hundred).

 ii. Supervisor are marked with an asterisk in the list of authors like:

     - John Smith (*) 15%.

     The sum of the shares of all supervisors must be greater or equal to one
     half (1/2 = 0.5).

iii. when the share of an author are increased to a value decided by the
     supervisors (which also happens when a contributor becomes author), the
     share of other authors are decreased proportionally to their current share
     to respect rule (i.).

     if this does not respect rule (ii.) some author must be promotted to
     supervisor, or a smaller share must be given to the author.

     Example if the current authors are:
       - John Smith (*) 40%
       - Anna Smith (*) 30%
       - Paul Smith     30%
     and if John and Anne decide to grant 20% share to Emie Smith as a new
     supervisor, the list of authors will become
       - John Smith (*) 32%
       - Anna Smith (*) 24%
       - Emie Smith (*) 20%
       - Paul Smith     24%

 iv. All decisions about the software are taken by a simple majority among
     supervisors, with vote proportional to their share. The decision that can
     be taken includes (but are not limited to):

     - accepting commit from contributors

     - deciding/changing simpler rules regarding commit acceptation (for
       instance but not limited to allowing a commit as soon as one (or two)
       supervisors agree).

     - accepting new authors of the software. They decide how many share the
       new author will have and apply the rule (iii.) above.

     - increasing the share of an author following rule (iii.). If the share
       of a surpervisor is increased, he does not take part to the voting for
       this decision.

     - promoting an author to supervisor (which may be mandatory because of
       rule (iii.)

     - selling the right to use the software to commercial organisation (see chapter
       3 below).

  iv. Supervisors can not remove an author or supervisor from the list below
      nor decrease their share except when using rule (iii.). However, a
      supervisor may decide to become an author and keep is share. If this
      violates rule (ii.) The minimum parts of his share are distributed among
      supervisors proportionally to their share so that rule (ii.) is
      respected.

   v. Similarly an author can decide to become a simple contributor and its
      share his shared among the remaining authors proportionaly to their
      share. If a supervisor decides to become a contributor, the computation
      of the shares must be made using first rule (iv) and then rule (v).

  vi. In the case where a supervisor can not anymore participate to the decisions
      about the software or in the case of the death of an author there are 2 rules
      to follow:

      - death: once the death of an author is established by the existing
        legal means, rule (iv) and (v) are applied. This means that your share are
        not transmissible to your heir as they do not constitute an ownership
        for two reasons:
        . only contributors can have share in the software
	. this licence do not permit owning or selling of the software itself

      - incapacity of long duration or impossibility to contact a supervisor
        (more than 6 weeks): rule (iv) will be applied and the supervisor will
        become an author, but the former supervisor will automatically
        recover, if he asks for it, its status of supervisor as soon as he
        contacts one of the other supervisors. His share will be computed as if
        he had remained supervisor, using the above rules. This implies
        that the history of application of rules that modifies share must be kept,
        preferably within the software files to replay them.

      - in case of conflict about the "capacity" or the "impossibility to
        contact" a supervisor, the local law must be applied to reach a
        decision among supervisors.


 vii. If the software looses all his supervisors, it will become Open Source
      software. The last surpervisor(s) may choose a free software licence, if
      they do not do so, the software will be distributed under the current
      version of the GPL LICENCE and/or LGPL LICENCE, the former applied to
      all software applications within the software and the latter applied to
      software libraries among the software. The copyright will still be granted to
      all contributors of the software.

3. Rules about commercial contracts & share are not property of the software

   i. The software under SANCAND or part of it can not be sold in any cases,
      nor destroyed.  The supervisor must take reasonable measures to ensure
      the security of the software files. For instance (but no limited to):
      ensure local copies in the author's computers and some cloud storage.

  ii. Commercial contract that would grant exclusivity of use of the software
      or any form of restriction for later contract are not permitted by this
      licence (they would be equivalent to selling the software).

 iii. Contract can only grant to commercial organisation the right to use the
      software, which include the right to modify it but not the right to
      distribute these modifications. They are contract between the commercial
      organisation and the authors of the software at the time the contract is
      signed. The financial counterpart of the contract must be shared among
      authors proportionally to their share at the time the contract is signed.

      If a contract is renewable, or if it enforces regular payments, it must
      be redacted to specify that these payments are done to the authors at
      the date of the payment, proportionally to their share.

      This means that authors do not own the software, but they are entitled
      right in the future contract about the software, according to their
      share. This is not property of the software because an author can not
      sell, destroy nor damage the software without violating this licence,
      and property of a thing if often defined as the ability to sell and
      destroy the thing.

      No other form of payment are permitted by this licence regarding the
      grant to use the software: all payment must be done to all authors at
      the date of the payment, proportionally to their share.

      This does not prevent authors or contributors to have individual contract
      around the software for instance (but not limited to)
      - selling formation
      - developing extension of the software for specific use of the
        commercial organisation (that may or may not be contributed to the
        software).

  iv. Author can not sell, transmit or give their share or part of their
      share of the software to anyone.

   v. Contributor grant the right to sign contract on their behalf to the
      supervisors. Supervisors must follow the above majority rule for
      decision. However, enough time and information must be given to all
      authors to allow them to leave the project according to the chapter 2 if
      they do not agree to the term of the contract. The list of authors used
      in the contract must be established after this reasonable time has
      expired.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

 a. No trademark or patent rights held by Contributors are waived, abandoned,
    surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.
 b. Contributors offers the software as-is and makes no representations or
    warranties of any kind concerning the software, express, implied,
    statutory or otherwise, including without limitation warranties of
    title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non
    infringement, or the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or
    the present or absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to
    the greatest extent permissible under applicable law.
 c. Contract to commercial organisation may include some warranties for the
    software. But those are granted by the contract, not by this Licence.
 d. Contributors disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
    that may apply to the software or any use thereof, including without
    limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the software.
    Further, Contributors disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary
    consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the
    software.

Thanks: this licence borrow some paragraphs to the creative common licence.

LIST OF CURRENT AUTHORS (date: )
-
-
-
